Investment Questionaire:
TIME HORIZON 
Circle the number of points for each of your answers and note the total for each section.
1.  
I plan to begin withdrawing money from my 
investments in:
Less than 3 years 
1
3–5 years 
3
6–10 years 
7
11 years or more 
10
2.  
Once I begin withdrawing funds from my 
investments, I plan to spend all of the funds in:
Less than 2 years 
0
2–5 years 
1
6–10 years 
4
11 years or more 
8
Enter the total points from questions 1 and 2.   
Time Horizon Score:
n
If your Time Horizon Score is less than 3, stop here. If your score is 3 or more, please continue to Risk Tolerance.
A score of less than 3 indicates a very short investment time horizon. F
or such a short time horizon, a relatively low-risk 
portfolio of 40% short-term (average maturity of five years or less) bonds or bond funds and 60% cash investments is 
suggested, as stock investments may be significantly more volatile in the short term



Schwab
------------------
Find a suitable investment strategy 
Your investing strategy should reflect the kind of investor you are—your personal investor profile. This quiz will help you 
determine your profile and then match it to an investment strategy that
’s designed for investors like you.
The quiz measures two key factors:
YOUR TIME HORIZON
When will you begin withdrawing money from your account and at what rate? If it
’s many years away, there may be 
more time to weather the market’s inevitable ups and downs and you may be comfortable with a portfolio that has a 
greater potential for appreciation and a higher level of risk.
YOUR RISK TOLERANCE
How do you feel about risk? Some investments fluctuate more dramatically in value than others but may have the 
potential for higher returns. It’s important to select investments that fit within your level of tolerance for this risk


There are about 3.5 billion people who use the Internet, and about 20 billion connected devices or just bots. Considering that the Bitcoin network has properties that are not offered us by any Government or Corporation, we can assume that there is a high probability that the majority of connected people and machines will use this network. What are these properties?

    No taxes
    Free opening of accounts. They are simply calculated from your private key :-)
    Low transaction fees
    Predictable and transparent clearing. You always know what is the status of any transaction
    The transaction cannot be rolled back
    Nobody asks the personal identification information
    Nobody can write off your money
    Nobody can block the account
    No stupid limits
    Suitable for all forms of property, not just currency.
    A complete history of all transactions
    Possibility of privacy and anonymity

Invest to not be cheated.

In the current economic circumstances the deception is carried out in 3 ways:

    Disguised theft.
    The part of inflation caused by the “printing press”. Watch movie “The Big Short”
    Trivial racket. 
    It is not enough for Government to steal you money secretly. They openly steals from people by adding value to taxes. According to my estimates, at least half!
     HALF
    No warranties. 
    Banks may go bankrupt. They simply tell you “sorry, there is no your money”. The point is that any of your assets at any time may not be yours. The state does not guarantee the safety of your money. The Government requires you to keep your money in the banks, and your right of property in the public registers. People naively believing that there is no any alternative.
    I believe, in the future, blockchain technology will become immutable mathematical guarantor of the preservation of property and economic freedoms.
    Foreseeing the collapse.
    There are so many predictions of the collapse of the American financial system. Even billionaires already say this openly. Let’s say that it will not happen. But if it happens, we will not go back to the existing world order. Such events in retrospect are called Black Swans. Nobody thought that the Second World will happen, that the Internet will appear, that Trump will become a President. But in retrospect, all these events are obvious, and have a rational explanation. The collapse of the Fiat system would be the same. If the American economy collapses, the world will literally be in chaos. Our history in this regard is even more interesting because if the US economy collapses, other economies collapse even more. The mortgage crisis of 2008 proved this clearly. But it didn’t teach anything.

But what’s surprising here? How this bubble could burst if there is no alternative? For some reasons no one admits the idea that an alternative to сurrent outdated system is already there. Which is great! That suggests that a Black Swan is not such an unlikely event. In the case that a negative event has at least some probability, smart financiers are recommended to hedge risks. Let’s guess 3 times, what’s the alternative?

Right — is Bitcoin.

    Investments in the blockchain as the protection from fraud of Governments and Central banks.


Vangard
------------------

Risk

Usually refers to investment risk, which is a measure of how likely it is that you could lose money in an investment. However, there are other types of risk when it comes to investing.


Perspectives on Starting to Invest

A behavioral economist illuminates the human side of investing

Understanding the behavioral biases behind your financial decisions can help you make wiser ones, according to Professor Richard Thaler.
How to choose the share class that suits you

This overview of our share classes can help you decide which one is right for you. All the options provide broad diversification of holdings, expert management, and low costs.
Combining active and passive investments

Vanguard experts discuss points to consider when you're looking for both potential portfolio outperformance and risk control.
How should you respond to bull and bear markets?

Market movements shouldn't drastically alter a well-thought-out financial plan, note Mary Ryan and Phil Korenman of Vanguard Personal Advisor Services. A financial advisor can help prevent you from making emotional decisions based on the news of the day.


What's next?

Allowing yourself plenty of time to get to a destination is always a good strategy. When it comes to investing, the more time you have, the more you can benefit from compounding.
See how risk, reward & time are related



Wizard Info Modal:
Figuring out risk

Deciding how much money you want to have and when you need it is probably pretty easy. Knowing how comfortable you are with risk might be a lot tougher if you've never thought about it or experienced it yourself.

But don't just wing it. Your risk tolerance is one of the critical ingredients in deciding what you're going to invest in. Picking investments that are riskier than you can handle can lead to some pretty ugly outcomes.

But choosing investments that aren't risky enough—that don't have the right potential for growth—can also be a roadblock in reaching your goal.



Information:


    Advice & guidance   Investor education   Getting started investing   

selected

    Getting started investing
    Investment plans, compounding & risk
    Asset allocation & diversification
    Costs
    Account types

Turn your goal into an investment plan

It might sound like a lot of work, but developing your investment plan is really just figuring out the answers to a few questions.
POINTS TO KNOW

    Having an investment plan is just as important as mapping a route and knowing your destination before you begin a journey.
    Creating your investment plan isn't difficult, but as with all other aspects of investing, help is available if you want or need it.

The GPS to your investment destination

Imagine you want to visit a friend, but you don't know where she lives. Would you get in your car and start driving, hoping you'll eventually find her? No—you'd get her address and map your route there.

Think of your investment plan as a map to get you to your financial goal. It will help you set your destination and the route that will get you there. And like plotting out a road trip, investment planning doesn't have to be complicated, doesn't require the services of a professional, and doesn't need to take a long time.
Not comfortable behind the wheel?

Road trips are a great vacation for some people, but they're not much fun for others. If you're not the kind of person who wants to put the time and energy into choosing investments and managing a portfolio, that's fine.

We still recommend that you have a basic understanding of how investing works. It's your money, after all. But an advisor can be your driver—or come along for the ride, if you just want someone to bounce ideas off of.
Partner with a Vanguard advisor
Mapping out your plan

Creating your investment plan starts with answering these questions:

    What's your final goal?
    What limitations do you need to keep in mind? For example, you might have a hard deadline that's 10 years away, a small initial investment, or a particular concern about taxes.
    How much will you invest each month or year? Will this amount rise over time?
    How much risk are you comfortable with?
    How often will you check to make sure your investments are still aligned with your plan?

It's a good idea to document your answers so that you have a touchstone for making future decisions about your portfolio.
See the research

Lacking an investment plan often leads to buying a random collection of funds. But choosing funds based on nothing but recent performance has historically led to bad outcomes.
Understand the benefits of creating clear, appropriate investment goals
Figuring out risk

Deciding how much money you want to have and when you need it is probably pretty easy. Knowing how comfortable you are with risk might be a lot tougher if you've never thought about it or experienced it yourself.

But don't just wing it. Your risk tolerance is one of the critical ingredients in deciding what you're going to invest in. Picking investments that are riskier than you can handle can lead to some pretty ugly outcomes.

But choosing investments that aren't risky enough—that don't have the right potential for growth—can also be a roadblock in reaching your goal.
Think about risk in context

Your risk tolerance can and probably will vary depending on your goal.

If you have more time (or if your timeline isn't fixed), you have a greater ability to take risk—kind of like choosing a route you're not as familiar with.

On the other hand, if you're starting your journey a little late, you have less room for unexpected detours. In that case, you'd be better off taking a "safer" route.

As you can see, your risk tolerance, time horizon, and ultimate goal all need to work together when you're deciding what to invest in.
What's next?

Allowing yourself plenty of time to get to a destination is always a good strategy. When it comes to investing, the more time you have, the more you can benefit from compounding.
See how risk, reward & time are related
Start investing now
Investment plans, compounding & risk
Turn your goal into an investment plan
How risk, reward & time are related
The risk of different investment types
